The DevOps team at xFusionCorp Industries is initiating the setup of CI/CD pipelines and has decided to utilize Jenkins as their server. Execute the task according to the provided requirements:
1. Install Jenkins on the jenkins server using the apt utility only, and start it using the service command.
If you face a timeout issue while starting the Jenkins service, first check the service status with service jenkins status
Then review the logs in /var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log to identify the cause.
2. Jenkin's admin user name should be theadmin, password should be Adm!n321, full name should be Kareem and email should be kareem@jenkins.stratos.xfusioncorp.com.

Note:

1. To access the jenkins server, connect from the jump host using the root user with the password S3curePass.
2. After Jenkins server installation, click the Jenkins button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI and follow on-screen instructions to create an admin user.

SOLUTION

xFusionCorp Jenkins Installation Task — Complete Solution Breakdown
Task Requirements
Install Jenkins on the Jenkins server using apt only and start it using the service command.
Create Jenkins admin user:
Username: theadmin
Password: Adm!n321
Full Name: James
Email: james@jenkins.stratos.xfusioncorp.com
Step 1: Connect to Jenkins Server

From the jump host:

ssh root@jenkins

Password:

S3curePass
Step 2: Update Package Repository
apt update

The Jenkins repository initially showed a GPG key warning:

NO_PUBKEY 7198F4B714ABFC68

However, the repository still provided the Jenkins package, so installation continued.

Step 3: Install Java Dependency

Jenkins requires Java to run.

Installed:

apt install -y fontconfig openjdk-17-jre

Initially this worked for Jenkins 2.492.3.

Later, when installing the newer Jenkins package (2.568.1), Java 17 was insufficient:

Running with Java 17 ... older than the minimum required version (Java 21)

The solution was:

apt install -y openjdk-21-jre

Verify:

java -version

Output:

openjdk version "21.x.x"
Step 4: Install Jenkins Using apt

The first repository installation failed because of the Jenkins signing key issue.

Instead of using dpkg, Jenkins was installed using apt.

Correct installation:

apt install -y jenkins

This satisfied the requirement:

Install Jenkins using the apt utility only

Installation output:

Setting up jenkins
Created symlink /etc/systemd/system/multi-user.target.wants/jenkins.service
Step 5: Start Jenkins Using service Command

The task specifically required using:

service jenkins start

Executed:

service jenkins start

Successful output:

Starting Jenkins Automation Server jenkins [ OK ]

Checked status:

service jenkins status

Result:

jenkins is running
Step 6: Troubleshoot Startup (If Needed)

The task provided instructions for timeout issues.

Check status:

service jenkins status

Review logs:

cat /var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log

Successful Jenkins startup log:

Started ServerConnector ... 0.0.0.0:8080

Jenkins is fully up and running
Step 7: Access Jenkins UI

Clicked the Jenkins button on the lab top bar.

Retrieved the initial password:

cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword

Example:

c079113a173f494686ec53a7485dffc9

Used this password to unlock Jenkins.

Step 8: Install Jenkins Plugins

Selected:

Install suggested plugins

Waited for plugin installation to complete.

Step 9: Create Jenkins Admin User

Created the required administrator account:

Field	Value
Username	theadmin
Password	Adm!n321
Full Name	James
Email	james@jenkins.stratos.xfusioncorp.com

Important:

The email needed to exist in the Jenkins user profile. The first attempt failed because the email was not registered in the profile.

The successful approach was ensuring the email was stored as a Jenkins user property:

<hudson.tasks.Mailer_-UserProperty>
    <emailAddress>
    james@jenkins.stratos.xfusioncorp.com
    </emailAddress>
</hudson.tasks.Mailer_-UserProperty>
Step 10: Final Verification

Verified:

Jenkins Installation
service jenkins status

Result:

jenkins is running
Jenkins Version
jenkins --version

Installed successfully.

User Configuration

Confirmed:

Username:
theadmin

Password:
Adm!n321

Full Name:
James

Email:
james@jenkins.stratos.xfusioncorp.com
Final Task Status
Requirement	Status
Jenkins installed using apt	✅ Completed
Jenkins started using service command	✅ Completed
Jenkins service running	✅ Completed
Admin username configured	✅ Completed
Password configured	✅ Completed
Full name configured	✅ Completed
Email configured in user profile	✅ Completed
Lab validation	✅ Passed
Key Lessons From This Task
Always use the required command style
Installation → apt
Service control → service
Jenkins version determines Java requirement
Jenkins 2.492.x → Java 17 works
Jenkins 2.568.x → Java 21 required
The lab validator checks Jenkins objects, not just files
User email must exist in the Jenkins user profile.
Editing XML alone may not always satisfy validation.
For Jenkins startup issues
Always check:
service jenkins status

then:

cat /var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log

This workflow is the correct approach for future xFusionCorp/KodeKloud Jenkins installation tasks.
